The word lidar is a portmanteau of the two words, light and radar.
Like radar, lidar is an active sensor that uses laser beams to
measure the world by sending out those beams and
measuring the beams as they're deflected back off of objects.
Lidar units can have a 360-degree horizontal field
of view if they're spinning around and measuring the world in all directions.
Lidar beams also have a vertical field of view,
which varies depending on the lidar unit,
but measures how high and how low the lidar beams can detect.
Lidar beams are really good at measuring distance.
They also create point clouds,
which are points of objects with x, y,
and z coordinates and often in intensity coordinate.
These points can be clustered together using
artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms,
and even sent through a neural network in order to detect
objects and draw bounding boxes around obstacles in the environment.
One of the drawbacks of lidar is that it can often be expensive,
but the performance of lidar units often
justifies the high cost of putting the unit on the robot.